So we get the tokens stored in local storage.
Now let's use it to automatically log a user in and for that we basically want to run them logic whenever
our ReACT upstarts.
When it starts we want to check whether the user is logged in.
Now the app J.S. follow the app component is basically the first component that gets rendered when the
app starts here and indexed J as I rendered his app component as my root component.
So any logic you run in here will run when the app well is starting up so if you want to run some logic
here whenever it is component renders for the first time we can use use effect in the app component.
So here it will add use effect and add a function to it that should check local storage for a token.
Now the dependencies of dysfunction will be an empty array which means this function here will only
run once when the component mounts when it rendered for the first time.
And that's by the way important use effect always runs after the render cycle.
I explained this earlier in the course already it's just important to keep in mind.
React well already rendered its component.
But of course in the unsophisticated state by default then and there after Randy's use affect function
for the first time.
This is just how react works.
You could theoretically manage a state which basically is something like is checking off and unless
it is in fact finished this will be true and you render some splash screen or some fallback page until
checking off is done here.
However I will keep it simpler and just go to use a fact than in there.
Check our local storage so in local storage I can get an item and get it by that key I used to store
it so in my case that's user data because that's what we used to store the data and what we extract
will be taxed.
Now we know that it's text which can be converted to a javascript object because it will be Jason text
or text which is using the Jason format.
Thankfully in JavaScript we got this Jason object which does not just have a string if I effort to convert
objects to Jason but also parts method to convert Jason's strings back to regular javascript data structures
like objects.
So here I then got my stored data which I extract from local storage and this stored data will be such
an object with a user I.D. and a token so now we can check if we got stored data.
So if this is not undefined.
So put in other words if we did find something there.
And if we do have store data we can check if stored data dot token is a thing if that is a thing we
know we have a token and therefore we could lock the user in so we could execute our log and function
here then and forward stored data.
Dot user I.D. and stored data dot token.
These are the two pieces we need here.
And we then trigger our log in logic now actually use a fact has a dependency and that is our log in
function.
But thanks to use callback this will only run once and it will not rerun thereafter.
And now here we just need to switch order and make sure we execute use effect after these functions
have been defined.
So now here we ensure dead log in is executed with our data with our user I.D. and with the token if
we got a token so if we now save this and I reload here you see indeed eyes which to be locked in mode
immediately we see a brief flickering here because the first render cycle is an unlocked indicated mode
but as I mentioned you could have wide this by instead loading some splash screen for the very first
render cycle until use effect is done you would just have to manage your is checking off status here
in that use effect and set it to false to indicate that you're done checking once you are done here.
I don't need that because it loads so fast I don't think we have a real problem here with the user experience.
So this is now using this token but with this implementation there are two things we're not doing for
one when we're logging out we're not clearing the token that is something we can easily do here in logout
we just have to add local storage remove key and remove the user data.
So that wasn't too hard.
Does ensures that when we do log out we indeed stay locked out if we reload so that we don't stored
a token and local storage.
The more important thing we're not doing here or the more severe thing we're not doing here is that
we're totally ignoring the fact that the token will expire.
We shouldn't do that.
For one we want to lock the user out automatically wants the token expired.
And second when we try to order log into user based on the token he might have.
We of course also want to check not only if we do have a token but if that token still is valid.
So we need to include the token expiration into our logic here.